I've been saying for years that Google
would eventually dominate AI, not
because ChatGPT isn't great, but because
Google owns the data, the distribution,
and now with Gemini 3, the capabilities
to change how marketing gets done.
[music] In this video, I'm going to
break down what Gemini actually does
better than ChatGPT, how it'll change
search, content, and advertising, and
what that means for your business in
2026. Because this isn't just about
which AI writes better copy. It's a
choice about which ecosystem you build
your growth engine on. And picking the
wrong one has real costs. Let's get
started.
Most marketers think you're choosing
between two chatbots. Write a blog with
ChatGPT or write with Gemini. What's the
difference, right? Wrong. What you're
actually doing is choosing which tech
company gets to control your marketing
costs, your execution speed, and your
competitive edge for the next decade.
Here's what I mean. OpenAI just went
into what people inside the company are
calling code red mode. They froze
non-essential products, shopping agents,
health tools, their advertising
products, even internal initiatives
[music]
to focus entirely on upgrading ChatGPT
to compete with Gemini 3. Why? Because
Gemini 3 shipped. It topped industry
benchmarks, and Marc Benioff, the CEO of
Salesforce, literally tweeted, "I'm not
going back to ChatGPT." When the CEO of
OpenAI sees that and immediately
reshuffles their entire product roadmap,
that tells you something critical. These
aren't stable tools you're casually
using. These are platforms at war, and
your marketing infrastructure is shaking
with them. Think about what you've built
in the last 12 months if you're using
ChatGPT. Custom GPTs for ad copywriting,
prompt libraries for blog content, team
training on how to use it effectively,
integrations with your CMS, Slack,
Google Sheets, workflows where ChatGPT
generates a draft and your team edits
it. That's all infrastructure
investment. And when OpenAI pivots
overnight because Google launched
something better, your ROI on all that
infrastructure is suddenly at risk. The
same goes for Google. If you're all in
on Gemini and Google changes their
pricing model or sunset the feature you
depend on, you're stuck. So, here's what
you need to understand. This isn't about
picking the better AI. It's about
recognizing that you're making a
platform bet whether you realize it or
not. And most marketers are making that
bet with zero strategy for what happens
when the [music] platform changes the
rules.
I've been predicting Google's AI
dominance since day one of ChatGPT's
hype cycle. Not because I'm a Google
fanboy, I'm not, but because they have
one structural advantage no other AI
company can ever replicate.
Data.
Every Google search for the last 25
years, every [music] YouTube video ever
uploaded, every Gmail ever sent, every
Google Doc, every click, every ad
impression. Google literally has decades
[music] of human behavior, intent, and
knowledge running through their servers.
Every time you use Chrome browser, they
have that data as well. According to a
study we did at my agency NP Digital,
Google processes [music] over 13.7
billion searches per day. That's 5
trillion searches a year. If you want to
break it down to seconds, that's 158,500
searches every single second, and every
one of those searches is training data.
OpenAI, they have to buy data, scrape
the web, and license content from
publishers. Anthropic is doing the same
thing, but Google owns the pipes. They
are the internet for most people. And
here's a kicker that most people miss.
>> [music]
>> When ChatGPT launched and embarrassed
Google's Sergey Brin, one of the
original founders, he came back. He saw
the bureaucracy slowing Google down and
just started smashing through it.
There's a clip [music] from the All-In
podcast where they talk about Brin
getting frustrated with internal
politics and basically telling Sundar,
the CEO, saying, "Hey, I can't deal with
these people. [music] You need to deal
with this." I was like,
I talked to him, I was like, "I can't
deal with these people. You need to deal
with this." Like, I just like
>> [laughter]
>> I'm beside myself. Leading to quick
policy fixes. Only founders can do that.
[music] Only founders have the authority
to look at a VP who says, "That's not
realistic [music] or we need 6 months
for approvals," and just say, "I don't
care. Make it happen." Employees can't
do that. Professional CEOs have to
navigate politics, but founders, [music]
founders have invisible hammer. And when
they decide something is existential,
bureaucracy evaporates. That's why
Gemini 3 shipped faster than anyone
expected. That's why Google is suddenly
iterating [music] at startup speed
despite having roughly a $4 trillion
company. But it's not just software.
Google's building the hardware
infrastructure to win long term. You saw
the Facebook deal, right? Meta's in
talks to purchase [music] Google's TPUs,
tensor processing units. These are
Google's answers to Nvidia chips. Meta's
trying to buy them instead of Nvidia.
That caused Google stock to spike
[music] toward that $4 trillion market
cap and Nvidia stock to drop. According
to Bloomberg, Google's TPU
infrastructure can process AI workloads
4x [music] more efficiently than
Nvidia's H100 chips for certain tasks.
So, what does that mean? It means Google
has strategic control of the entire
[music]
AI stack, the data, the algorithms, and
the physical chips processing it all.
OpenAI is dependent on Microsoft for
cloud infrastructure and Nvidia for
chips.
>> [music]
>> That's a structural disadvantage they
can't engineer their way out of. When
you think about which AI to build your
marketing operation on, you need to
[music] ask, which company has a
structural advantage to keep winning
long term? Google has data,
distribution, search, YouTube, Gmail,
Workspace, proprietary hardware, and
founder-level urgency. That's not hype.
That's infrastructure, [music]
and infrastructure wins platform wars.
Most people don't know this, but Google
and OpenAI aren't even playing the same
business model. OpenAI charges $20 a
month for ChatGPT Plus. They charge
enterprises hundreds or thousands
[music] per month for API access. Why?
Because ChatGPT is their business. They
need it to be profitable or at least
break even to survive as a company.
Google,
>> [music]
>> they don't care about making money
directly from Gemini. Let me say that
again because it's critical. [music]
Google does not need Gemini to be
profitable. Google is the most
profitable company that exists to date
with over $116 billion in annual profit.
Gemini is a strategic asset that drives
people into Google Workspace, Google
Cloud, Google Ads, YouTube, the entire
ecosystem. The AI itself doesn't need to
be a profit center. [music] It just
needs to keep you inside Google's world
where they monetize you in 10 other
ways. According to Google's Q3 2024
earnings, Google's cloud revenue hit
$11.4 [music]
billion in a single quarter, up 35% year
over year. Google Ads revenue was $65.5
billion for the quarter. [music] Do you
think they care about charging $20 a
month for Gemini when they're making
billions keeping you in their ecosystem?
No. That means Google [music] can
undercut OpenAI on price, offer Gemini
bundled into products you're already
paying for, and subsidize the costs with
revenue from ads, cloud, and enterprise
tools. [music] We've seen this playbook
before. Gmail launched with massive free
storage with competitors like Yahoo
offering limited free storage and
[music] paid tiers. Google Docs, it was
free when Microsoft Office was charging
$300 back in the day. Then it led
Microsoft to offer free versions of
their software and eventually now having
subscriptions that range from $7 to $22
per month per user. [music] Android,
free operating system to compete with
iOS. Google Maps API, free [music] for
years to kill competitors, then monetize
once dominant. The pattern is always the
same. Google uses free or cheap products
to dominate ecosystems, then monetizes
through other channels. OpenAI doesn't
have that luxury. If they drop ChatGPT
prices too low, they burn cash and run
out of runway. If they raise prices too
high,
>> [music]
>> they lose customers to Google. They're
stuck between a rock and a hard place.
So, what does this mean for your
marketing budget? If you're building
your entire content operation, ad
workflow, and analytics stack around
ChatGPT, you're betting that OpenAI can
stay [music] price competitive with a
company that doesn't need to charge for
AI to win. In my opinion, that's a
dangerous [music] bet. And if you're
wrong, you'll pay two to three x more to
stick with ChatGPT or spend a few months
rebuilding all your workflows around
Gemini.
The smartest marketers I know aren't
choosing between ChatGPT and Gemini.
They're using both strategically, and
it's giving them an unfair advantage.
Now, before I break this down, if you
need help with your marketing and you
just want a company to just do this all
for you, check us out at NP Digital,
where we help companies integrate AI
into the marketing as well as get them
traffic and conversions from all these
new [music] AI platforms. Here's what a
fluid model workflow looks like in
practice. Use case number one, the Nano
Banana Ad Creative Workflow. This is a
workflow we built for one client that
cut creative production from about 3
days to roughly 45 [music] minutes. Step
one, use Gemini to analyze
top-performing ads in your niche. You
can use a prompt [music] like this. Why
Gemini? Because Google's Gemini is wired
into the web and it's strong [music] at
pattern spotting across recent examples
and trends. You can combine that with
[music] assets you paste in. Step two,
use ChatGPT to generate 10 ad copy
variations based on those insights.
Here's a prompt you can use. Why
ChatGPT? ChatGPT typically produces more
conversational, emotional-driven
language, which often performs better
[music] in direct response ads. Step
three, use Nano Banana to turn those
copy variations into visual ad creatives
automatically. You [music] can use this
prompt. Why Nano Banana? Nano Banana
generates amazing ad creatives really
well, and you can pump out all sorts of
versions so you You test angles
immediately instead of waiting on a
designer. The result? [music] You go
from concept to 10 testable ad
variations in under an hour using each
model where it tends to be the
strongest. Use case number two, [music]
SEO content that actually ranks. Step
one, use Gemini for keyword research and
SERP analysis. Because it's [music]
wired into Google search, Gemini is
great at servicing real-time queries,
SERP features, [music] and what types of
pages are currently ranking. Step two,
use ChatGPT to write content. In
practice, ChatGPT often produces more
conversational, story-driven articles
[music] that keep readers engaged, which
tends to correlate with better
engagement metrics. Step three, use
Gemini to refine [music] titles and
metadata descriptions based on what's
actually showing up in today's results.
>> [music]
>> Use case three, data analysis plus
reporting. Step one, export your Google
Analytics, Facebook Ads, and email
marketing data into a Google Sheet. Step
two, use Gemini, which integrates
natively with Google Sheets, to analyze
the data. You can use [music] this
prompt.
Step three, use ChatGPT to write the
client-facing report. You can use this
prompt. Why? In practice, ChatGPT
[music]
often produces clearer, more persuasive
explanations of what the data means and
what to do next. Now, everything I'm
showing you is actionable, but it still
requires a team that [music] can
execute, writers, editors, strategists,
analysts. If you don't have the
infrastructure yet, my agency NP Digital
does. We work in over 20 countries
across the world, and we have over a
thousand that work with all the way from
small and medium brands to global 1000
companies that are publicly traded.
ChatGPT and Gemini are still similar
enough that switching is manageable.
Prompts translate easily, outputs are
comparable, and your team won't need
extensive retraining. But, that's
changing fast. As these platforms
mature, they diverge significantly.
[music] Google will embed Gemini
throughout its ecosystem, ads,
analytics, YouTube, Gmail. OpenAI will
develop ChatGPT exclusives, custom GPTs,
[music] enterprise tools, API features.
Higher divergence means a higher
switching cost. Enterprises are expected
to [music] invest millions in AI
infrastructure soon, with many CAOs
concerned about vendor lock-in. Most
companies will build systems optimized
for one platform. And when prices
increase or competitors improve, [music]
they'll be trapped. The infrastructure
choices you make now will dictate your
flexibility and cost for the next five
years. Here's what you need to do.
Number one, make platform strategy a Q1
2026 priority. Don't [music] treat this
as IT decision, treat it as a business
strategy decision. Get leadership
involved. Map out your AI dependencies.
Identify where you have lock-in risk.
Two, build multimodal testing into your
workflow. Every quarter, benchmark your
core AI tasks across ChatGPT, Gemini,
and Claude. Track your performance, your
cost, the output quality. Make switching
decisions based on data, not inertia or
brand preference. Three, train your team
on AI principles, not platforms. Teach
them how to write effective prompts,
structure workflows, and evaluate
outputs. Skills that transfer across any
model. Don't just teach how to use
ChatGPT, teach them how to think about
AI strategically. Four, [music]
build platform agnostic documentation.
Every prompt, every workflow, every
process, document it in plain language
that works across models. Don't
hardcode, step three, [music] use
ChatGPT to generate X. Instead, write,
step three, use AI [music] to generate
X, and note which model currently
performs the best. The pattern is always
the same. Platform lock-in is [music] a
tax. Platform agility is a moat, and it
matters more with AI than it ever did
before, because AI is improving
exponentially, not linearly. Gemini 3 is
beating ChatGPT on some benchmarks right
now. OpenAI's rumored garlic model might
be leapfrogging Gemini next quarter.
Anthropic could release the next Claude
and change the game entirely. [music] If
you're locked into one platform, you
miss those improvements. You're stuck
waiting for your vendor to catch up. But
if you're platform agnostic, every
improvement across every vendor makes
you faster, [music] cheaper, and better.
Stop asking, which AI should I use?
Start asking, how do I build a marketing
operation that wins no matter which AI
[music] wins. That's the strategy that
compounds. That's the moat that lasts.
And that's how you train AI from a tool
into an unfair competitive advantage. If
you want to learn more about how you can
use AI tools to grow your business,
watch one of these videos next.